---
layout: post
title:  "Incoming: Improvements!"
cover-img: /assets/img/funding_growth_splash.jpg
date:   2024-10-10 11:10:12 +0200
author: Guus der Kinderen
categories:
---

A new boost in the project's budget will allow us to approximately _double_ the test coverage of our project (and add a couple of nice features)! 

Much of the [XMPP Interop Testing project](https://xmpp-interop-testing.github.io/) was made possible as the work was funded through the NGI0 Core Fund. This is a fund established by [NLnet](https://nlnet.nl/) with financial support from the European Commission's [Next Generation Internet programme](https://ngi.eu/).

It is quite remarkable how far the effects of funding reach: it allowed us to work out our plans to take various, pre-existing bits and bobs, and quickly and efficiently turn a small tool used for internal testing to a proper testing framework for any XMPP server implementation to be able to use. That snowballed in bug fixes for server implementations, and improvements to specifications used by many. A relatively small fund thus improved the quality of open standard-based communication used in one shape or another by countless people, daily!

We are so happy and grateful to NLnet for boosting our project's grant! With the additional work, we will add the following improvements:

- Have better test coverage by writing more tests;
- Improve feedback when tests fail or do not run at all;
- Add a new test account provisioning option;
- Improve test selection configuration;
- Automate recurring maintenance tasks;
- Add support for other build systems.

This all will help us improve our framework, it will help our users to improve their products, and will allow new projects to more easily deploy our open and free solutions into their CI pipelines!

You can expect a lot of these improvements to become available to you, soon!

_Splash image courtesy of [Micheile Henderson, Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/@micheile?utm_content=creditCopyText&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=unsplash)_
  